We run it on QI a few years ago. Yeah. Which was there's no such thing as a fish.
You have no such thing as a fish. No seriously, it's in the Oxford Dictionary of Underwater Life.
He says it right there, first paragraph. No such thing as a fish.
Hello and welcome to another episode of No Such Thing as a Fish, a weekly podcast coming to you
from the QI offices in Covent Garden. My name is Dan Shriver. I'm sitting here with three other
elves Andy Murray, Anna Chazinski and James Harkin. And once again, we've gathered around the table
with our favorite facts from the last seven days. So here we go in no particular order,
our favorite things from the last week. Anna. My fact is that rats wearing polyester pants
can't get directions. What, how did they find this out? So this guy, it was in 1993 and it was
Dr. Armad Shafiq and he dressed up 75 rats. We just established why he did this first?
Yeah, he wanted to see if polyester decreases fertility. It's science, Dan. Okay. Yeah.
So yeah, he split them into five groups, dressed one group up in cotton trousers or pants,
dressed another group up in polyester pants, another group up in wool pants, another group up
in 50/50, which I think is what most people wear, right? Right. It's like 50% cotton, 50% polyester.
And yeah, they have to wear these pants continuously for six months and then he shoved them in with
a load of women. I mean, female rats. No, maybe that was where he went wrong. I mean, a lot of the women
got pregnant. Sorry, yeah, he shoved them in with a load of female rats and he found that the
ones wearing polyester pants tried to mount the females and their ability to penetrate them
was significantly reduced. And the idea is synthetic fabrics are bad for you, is that it?
Yeah, actually, he said that, but I think that's controversial. A lot of studies say wearing
polyester boxes might reduce your sperm count, but how weird. Yeah. But then I read quite a good quote
from a doctor saying, "How come during the 70s and 80s when everyone was wearing tight polyester
clothes suddenly the human population didn't decrease rapidly?" Yeah, there were a lot of
advances in other areas as well. We're only working a while, but the only variable was what kind of
finds trousers everywhere. Yeah, so anyway, he thinks the reason this happens and the reason that it
maybe happens in humans, but the reason that it happens definitely in rats is that it creates
kind of a static electricity around, if you're wearing polyester, tight polyester. So you've got
electric genitals. You've got electric genitals, yeah. That's a great thing. And the sperm hate that.
And I found this out in a book called "Bonk" by Mary Roach, who we love because she writes excellent
books. So "Bonk" is a scientific approach to sex, but it's really well written. It's really entertaining
read. I thought when I heard the fact, I read into this guy just very quickly because I wanted to see
what kind of character he was. And there was a great little thing that Mary Roach had found out that
he was Nobel Prize nominated. But the thing is she checked up to see if he was Nobel nominated,
and the rules of Nobel are that they don't reveal who the nominations were until 50 years after
the nomination itself. So you can go around. She's saying put that on your resume. You can go around
saying you're a Nobel Prize nominated person and no one will ever know. But he also performed the
world's first bladder transplant. He also did the same experiment on dogs, which I find so I think
he might have just really liked putting pants on animals. He was quite clear in the study that he
washed them every time they were soiled. Rats do soil themselves a lot. They urinate almost all the time.
Oh, that's a lot of washing, man. Yeah. Unless it was just number two's that he was cleaning up.
But so rats urinate all the time everywhere to attract women, female rats. They also
weave on food to marketers edible standard practice. Yeah. Females will weave on a male that they
particularly like male rats will do the same to females. Young rats will weave on older rats.
And no one knows why they do that. And dominant males regularly weave on their subordinates.
Not standard practice. No, that's a lot of weaving to be cleaning up after. Is that clear?
Do they have to constantly drink? Possessently in the pub, just downing pines.
So we don't know why they piss on each other? I think the idea is maybe that it contains
pheromones or something like that. But it seems like such a blunt instrument to us because we don't
know about whatever pheromones maybe it is. So they probably look at us going, all these humans,
they make noises with their mouths, when they're happy, when they're sad, to please people, to make
people angry. It's grotesque. Why are they marking that you're lying, there was edible.
Going back to Mary Roach, which is where you got the fact about rats in Pants from. I read it a
few years ago, I think it was in the J series and because you have to tenuously tie everything
to the letter of the alphabet you're studying. Mine was at a J for jiggy, brackets, jiggy.
Other incredible facts from this book, Bonk, I love this one. In 1851 a gynecologist called James
Platt White was expelled from the American Medical Association from inviting medical students to
observe a consenting woman giving birth because his colleagues were so outraged by the idea of a
male doctor looking at female genitals. I was given birth to in front of a bunch of students.
Why? Really? Yeah. It was pretty awesome. Can you remember much about it? Of course, of course I can,
we are. It's not a talk about how beautiful I was. Oh, and the other two fifths of the human penis
is hidden beneath the skin. Two fifths. Two fifths? It's like an iceberg. Oh, and I think the other
thing I should have mentioned on this podcast before is about the postage stamp penis test.
Well, say it anyway, what is it? In the 20th century, if someone couldn't get an erection,
it was either going to be psychological or it was going to be physiological. So to test whether or not
it was purely bodily problem or whether it was all in the mind, they would attach a strip of
perforated postage stamps around the base of the penis and then leave you overnight. If it was a
purely psychological problem, you would have an erection as you slept and the perforations would
tear, whereas if it was a physiological problem, you wouldn't and you'd wake up still. Well, the thing
was when you woke up and your penis had been sent to basketball. Okay, time for back number two,
Andrew Hunter Murray. Okay, my effect is that during the First World War,
entertainment for the troops included organised pillow fights, wheelbarrow races and wrestling on
the backs of mules. Sounds like fun. It does sound like fun. Wrestling on top of a mule,
like two men on a top of a mule. What I think it is, is two men on two different mules
trying to push the other one off. Like low key jasting, but I haven't confirmed that,
so you may be right. It may be, it may be two men on one mule. So that's a lot to put on one mule.
Yeah. I do know you're not allowed legally to ride a llama. What do you mean? Nobody's allowed to
ride a llama. It's just in this country or? Well, again, you test the limits of my knowledge.
Should we have llamas in Britain? We do have llamas in Britain. They're farmed quite a lot,
but it's really bad for them to ride them. So they have quite weak backs, and you could load them
up with a bit of weight, but really not very much. And when you look at them, they've got these lovely
vertical high necks and then quite a dip in their backs. You can easily see that riding them
would be quite bad for them, actually. Their audience ride them everywhere. They didn't care.
Anyway, yes, so these were just the various things that were done to keep morale up
among British troops, because obviously there's a lot of time going on between battles.
So where did these fights take place? So they in the front line, do we think? Just front trench?
I just spec'd a little bit further. Yeah, they probably didn't do wheelbarrow races in no
man's land. Did they? No. Just going over the top with your pillows. So, I'm sorry, just so yeah,
just this this pillow fight that we only know about it, because these are first one more diaries,
which the National Archive have been digitising. And you can go and see them at Q and you can go and
look through them. They have hundreds of thousands of documents. They have a copy of the Doomsday
book there. A replica of it, but nonetheless, it's very cool. Wow. Yeah, very good. Hey, so pillows
used to be made of stone. How long would you like to fight with those, would you? No. When was this?
In the 70s. These are thousands of years old. So the very earliest pillows are Mesopotamian,
they're about 9,000 years old. And they're made of stone and they're carved in a half moon shape,
so they can support your neck. Some people think that it was just to stop insects crawling into your
nose and mouth as you slept. Okay. On the day he died, Martin Luther King had a pillow fight,
few years before he died. It's recorded in Andrew Young's biography. Andrew Young was a really good
friend of his and the three of them were in the Memphis Lorraine Hotel. And, yeah, apparently,
Martin Luther King and another friend set up on this other guy with pillows and beat him about. That's
a pillow assault. Yeah, it was pillow assault. Yeah, it was pillow abuse. Japan actually has issued
an official pillow for pillow fighting. Oh, they're really into each panel. Yeah, there's an annual
pillow fight day in Japan. And, you know, if a pillow has a zip, if a pillow has feathers that you
could choke on. Made out of stone. Made out of stone. You died, mate. You know, there's a lot of,
there's a lot of pain that can be brought on by a pillow. And the safest pillow you can use for
a pillow fight. What does that know? Yeah, you've seen them. It's got many feathers. Yeah,
what feathers? We're not allowed to feathers anymore in a pillow fight. If feathers come out and
you choke on a feather, you can die. That's part of the joy of pillow fighting. It's true. Feathers
everywhere. Peter the Great of Russia used used a young male orderly stomach as a pillow when he
was traveling. He would fall asleep and he would wake up an hour or two later, completely refreshed,
because he sometimes had convulsions, which might have been epileptic convulsions, we're not sure.
But when it became a proper convulsion, the only cure was to put him in the company of someone he
found relaxing. And so when he married his second wife, it was always her or another young woman.
He would just put his head in her lap. She was choking his head. It's like the idea of like him
going to bed with his wife. So night honey, laying back on a man. At the top of the bed.
I have to sleep on the legs as well. The pillow is too hot. I need to turn it over.
If we go back to entertainment in the First World War, because I know this is one of your boss's
favourite things, Andy. The wipers times, if you guys have ever read the wipers times,
which is so good. In his lot, the other boss. He's not John Lloyd. Andy does his moon nighting at
private eye. But I think he did a documentary on the wipers times, didn't they? I just find it
amazing. So in 1916, in the trenches, the wipers times was the trench newspaper. And it was a
theoretical newspaper, really funny, like private eye or the daily mash. And it happened just
because it was when they were in EEPRA and they just stumbled across a printing press that was
lying around. And then they started distributing this newspaper. It would do things like publish
articles apologising for when the British sheld their own people. And it was pretty subversive when
you read it. You think, how on earth did they get away with printing and distributing this to
normal soldiers? Yeah, it was always so delicious. Given that they had their letters checked and they
had to be read all the way through to check they weren't saying anything negative about the war,
but they were allowed to publish this newspaper, which is extremely negative about their experiences
in the trenches. It's kind of weird. It's amazing. I have one more really, I'm one of my favourite
facts about the First World War. Okay. They dug a section of trench to help people train for life
in the trenches in Blackpool. But they also took visitors around. You could pay a penny and visit
them. They were called the loose trenches and be shown around by a soldier who was recuperating,
who'd been actually at the front in France or Belgium. Imagine spending all that time on the
front line in World War I and then being sent to Blackpool. I'm allowed to say that because I'm from
Lancashire. The record for the largest pillow fight ever engaged in was set in Chicago in 2013 and
involved 3,813 people, but four and a half thousand pillows, which I think is cheating. So some of you
have lied too? Yeah, I guess so. Oh. Didn't know it was allowed. Got to check the old Japanese pillow
fighting rules. Just, this is pretty non-secretary, but about world records. I just really like that
thing about the world record custard pie fight. The record was 253 custard pies thrown in the
fight. It would have been 255, but two of the pies were mysteriously eaten. That mysterious.
That's quite small for a custard pie fight. We could beat that. We could beat that in a QI audience,
couldn't we? Yeah. Don't know how the studio managers are going to feel about that.
Okay, time to move on to fact number three and that is James.
Okay, my fact is that the atmosphere on Venus is so hot that if you took a pizza out of a freezer
that it would cook in three seconds. Wow. And would it cook all the way through? Or would it burn
on the surface and not cook in the middle? Great question. Yeah. I imagine, yeah, there would be a
certain rare quality of the inside. Yeah, and singe on the outside. And this comes from a talk by
Neil DeGrasse Tyson and it was about his book, which was Death by Black Hole and other cosmic
quandaries. And he says in his book, I think that it would take either seven or nine seconds,
but in this article about his talk, someone corrected him and said it would be three seconds.
Oh, okay. I'd not show what the correction was. I think it might have been to do the pressure
or something. I like, I like when scientists come up with these sort of weird analogies. Yeah,
that way it is good because someone might say to you, okay, it's 800 degrees Fahrenheit on Venus,
but what does that mean to anyone? Yeah, it's just a number, isn't it? Yeah. But also,
if it's 800 degrees Fahrenheit on Venus, why are you having pizza? You should have a nice ice cream.
Maybe a cool lemonade. Boy, yeah. And if you're in a refrigerator as well, stay in the fridge,
it's boiling outside. How are you powering this fridge? Okay, there are certain, certain administrative
problems there, but nonetheless, that's what would happen. In fact, fridges in the Arctic,
the Chukchi, I think, do this and probably in Canada, they do it as well. They use refrigerators
to keep things warm because if you have food outside, it'll freeze, but if you put it in the refrigerator
where it's like three degrees, it'll keep it stopped for fridges. Do they call the fridge the oven?
No. I'm speaking of weather on planets. Do you guys know about planet H-D-1-8-9-7-3-3-B? Of course.
So this is a planet that is 63 light years away from us and it rains glass sideways in 7,000 kilometers
per hour wind on this planet. Wow. I want light to play golf in that. Do you know, I actually tweeted
this a few days ago and I think someone responded with that exact answer. Yeah, it sounds like a cool
place. So it's got this deep blue hue, which they've worked out as a result of it's molten glass,
so it's silicate in the atmosphere, which is shooting down sideways. Wow. Have you guys heard about
the mysterious light? Oh, Venus. No, Daniel, we haven't heard about your mysterious light.
The ash in light, it's called. It's a light that happens on the planet that scientists have been
studying. Have no idea what it is. There's a lot of theories. No one's decided what it is yet.
Herschel saw it. Patrick Moore was a kind of called Franz von Gruthlisson. I can't pronounce his name
probably, but he believed that it was fires from a celebration of a new vanusian emperor being announced.
All these scientists have been looking at it over the years and we still don't know what it is. So
it's a mystery and they could be lightning. It's just a patch of light that just comes up and I have
no idea what it is. For a long time, they did think that could be life on Venus because it's so
covered in clouds, it was really difficult to see, but with telescopes, what was going on under
there? So it was only when they sent probes down that they realized actually there was no way anything
could possibly live down here. When the Soviet and the nearer program sent probes down there,
the longest any of the probes lasted was 127 minutes before they melted.
Really? The surface of Venus is hot enough to melt an aluminium pan. So I don't know what you're
serving this pizza wrong. Hey, you want to hear some stuff about pizza? Yeah, yeah, yeah, go on.
This was a publicity stunt by Pizza Hut in the early 2000s. They claimed that they were the first
company in the world to deliver a pizza to outer space because the company sent one on a Russian
rocket to the International Space Station and then Yuri Usichov, one of the Russian cosmonauts,
living there, ate it and Pizza Hut paid about 700,000 quid for that. So I think we can all agree,
money was spent. It is now that they've got this kind of promotion from the QI podcast.
Before they were wondering if anything had happened to it. Yeah, but they paid all this money.
And in return, they got to do that. Then they got footage of Mr Usichov flashing a thumbs up after
eating the pizza and then for pasting the chain's logo on a rocket last year. You do you guys know
about Pizza Hut's proposal package? No. So this cot... Sounds romantic. It is romantic, cost $10,000 and
$10.00. It was a limited edition offer in 2012 and it came with a red ruby ring, a limousine which
took you to your location of choice, flowers, fireworks, a photographer and the cherry on the icing,
a $10 dinner box. What's a $10 dinner box? It's like a box with pizza in it and some cheese sticks.
Another thing the Pizza Hut has is its own perfume called ode to Pizza Hut. It smells apparently
like a freshly opened box of pizza, although a professional smellologist, whatever we're calling them,
actually said it smells like cinnamon, baby powder and most overwhelmingly feet. They're not my favorite
toppings. Actually, speaking of William Marry Me, this is something I looked into for the last
fact we were discussing for the Iceland fact. But the first woman who ever placed a personal ad
in a newspaper was immediately committed to an asylum. What did it say? Did it say blah, blah, blah?
I'm going to kill everyone, Marry Me. No, she was just committed to doing asylum by the
meds. She placed a personal ad in the Manchester weekly journal in 1727. She was called Helen Morrison
and the first person to respond was the mayor who had a locked up in an asylum for a month for doing
something so completeness. I don't believe that. When was the last time you were in Manchester?
I don't mean much. A few things about weather. Okay. On planets, the great dark spot on Neptune has
winds of 1,500 miles per hour. If there winds anywhere on Earth, for instance, are more than
about 120 miles an hour, it's no longer possible to stay upright and it's 1,500 miles an hour there,
so 10 times more. So you're telling us if you opened an umbrella, you would fly. You would fly.
Well, you would certainly be throwing along the floor if not fly. Awesome. Also on Mars, the
atmosphere is so thin on Mars that if you stood at the equator at noon, it would feel like summer
at your feet and winter at your head. Wow. Wow. So crouched to eat your pizza, stand up to eat your
ice cream dessert. The beautiful clouds floating around your midwreff. Yeah, it's very thin, so you
wouldn't really see much of it. Would it be like being a giant on Earth? Yeah. Maybe. I'm just trying
to get a clear sense of what it would look like to be there. I was looking at weird ways to cook stuff,
okay? Because, you know, pizza on Venus, a weird way to cook stuff, tips for other weird ways to cook
stuff. If your oven's broken, poaching salmon in the dishwasher, apparently what actually works,
have you, does it work? Yeah. Yeah. It's great. Rapid and tin foil. Yeah. A cook on top of your car
engine, you've got a drive for about an hour in your car for something to cook properly like an egg,
but the other good way to cook something when your oven's broken is to put it in the middle of
a compost heap. And so there's a guy who likes to do this, I was reading his blog and it gets really
hot in the middle of compost heaps. So in fact, once our compost heap and our garden set on fire,
it was mental and our garden, but also composty. Yeah, so maybe you know, wrap it in foil again,
but this guy says, I quote, now whenever I hanker for a real breakfast treat, I drop a few eggs in
the compost heap in the evening and look forward to a morning feast. Be sure when he says drop a few eggs.
Okay, time for the final fact of the show. And that is my fact. And my fact this week is that in Iceland,
there is a phone app that tells you if you're related to the person that you're hitting on.
Okay, I don't usually go to frozen food supermarkets to hit some people, but maybe you do.
Okay, the country, Iceland, they've got a really small population over there.
Some like 320,000 people, so many people were accidentally finding out, you know, in the bedroom chat in
the morning. So like, oh, so what do you want today? Oh, go to my, my mom's, my mom's barbecue.
Oh, I'm going to a barbecue today. Oh, what's up? Oh, my God. Cousin too.
Yeah, that's that's how it works. My grandmother's birthday today. Oh, me too, too.
Yeah, so where do you live? Just in the next bedroom, actually. Yeah, so this is this is a really
important app because they want to stop the gene pool from becoming incestuous. And it's basically
in a bar, you both have the app on your phones, you bump the phones, their motto is bump phones before
you bump in the bed. And the idea is that then tells you whether or not you're related. It's very
clever. That's great. Isn't the feature, the specific feature in this app is called, I'm going to
mispronounce this, sif yasperspilia, which is called the incest spoiler. Yeah, it's got negative
connotations. It implies you're ruining something that could have been otherwise a bit of an experience.
Sounds like you wanted incest incest spoiler alert. It's what you would receive with your phone.
Incest spoiler alert. Yeah. That's so good. But yeah, I just think that's what I really love most about
it other than like it's it's a very interesting app. Is the fact that apps are getting to the point
now where we've just got so many options of lifestyle choices via reading a little app that we,
you know, my friend knew that she was giving birth because her pregnancy contraction app told her,
I mean, yeah, I don't know how that works. There also in Japan at the moment, there's a new app,
which, okay, basically, this sounds really weird, but there's a bra now in Japan that doesn't come off
unless you truly love the person that you're talking to or that you're having relationships.
You're kind of like a chastity bra and the way that it knows that you do like the person is something in
the bra that monitors your pulsating heart, your heart then sends a message to your iPhone where there
is an app that releases the bra and then it can come off. What about when you go go to sleep at the end
of the day and you want to take a bra off? You have to feign being in love. And also fast a heart rate.
What if you're being mugged and then your bra comes off? Those photographs son rollercoasters will be
really interesting. Everyone's bra, so I don't know. It wasn't scared. That's not what you're pressed to say.
There was an app in Azerbaijan in 2013 that would tell you the results of the election as soon as the
results came in. Unfortunately, anyone who downloaded it got a message the day before the polls opened
saying there was a massive landslide for the current president. There's a really good one I read about
the other day called Run P and it's an app and the idea behind it is so you know when you're in the
cinema and you're watching a movie and you really need the toilet but it's a great movie and you're
going I have no idea when I need to go. So the app is you open it up and you type in the name of the
movie that you're watching and people have watched the movie before have put this into the app. So if
you're watching Guardians of the Galaxy it will say one hour 28 minutes in you're going to get to a scene
that says that's like this. Perfect time to go. It's a boring scene. It's not needed to know the rest of
the plot. So it tells you exactly in every movie where you need to go for a P. That's good. That's so
good. It's really great. Wow. Okay, incest. Should we talk about incest? Yes, please. So in Hawaii they
used to revere incest and they had a system called Nia Upo-Oh whose aim was to keep the royal lineage
as clear as possible and the very top of the society was a Kapu and that was a product of a royal
brother and sister and if you were the son or daughter of a royal brother or sister you were
considered a god. Partly because you had seven legs and we're blue. Yeah. Wow, weird. Yeah. So in
Russia, China, Ivory Coast, Spain, Portugal and quite a few other places it's not illegal to commit
incest but in Korea it's really illegal and actually you can't not allow to marry anyone who's
related more closely than 8th cousin. Oh my god. Yeah. Although obviously it's difficult to check that.
You're not allowed to knowingly do that but you by law I think you have to check that they're not
second cousins. In South Korea you're not it was decreed in 3008 that if you had the same surname as
someone else you couldn't marry them because of this incest. However a fifth of people in South
Korea have the surname Kim so there are all these people who might love each other very much and be
very distantly not related at all essentially but legally they weren't allowed to marry. So I think
they've changed it now. Have they a little bit? Yeah, they have. In 1997 it was repealed but before
that every so often they would just have an amnesty and say okay a few ten thousand of you can get
married to each other. Interesting. Yeah that's very interesting. Yeah it is. I was going to talk about
Iceland. Does anyone interested in Iceland? I love Iceland. Have you been to Iceland?
Yes I have. I always think Iceland is like a geography teacher's best ever thing because it's got
everything like what it is. Oh my god it's worth flakes and you know tectonic plates and everything
that geezers. Yeah. They also believe in elves which is very exciting. Oh yeah. 54% I think it's
in 1998. Well yeah I remember because I only know this because John Lloyd told me this years ago he
said that 54% believe in it but if you get them drunk something like 90% admit that they actually
believe in it. I'm so really like that's great. There was quite a good comment from an Icelandic
academic who was saying you say that it's geographically fascinating who was saying you can completely
believe if you've lived there and grown up there the earth is so volatile and moving all the time and
whips the smoke shooting up out of the ground and stuff it's kind of not surprising that people think
there are spirits everywhere and there's a really sweet story of a politician an Icelandic politician
a couple of years ago his cast ban off the road and he said that he was saved from any injury by elves
and then a short while later they were going to build over the elf home and the elves lived in a nearby
boulder and so the politician said no you can't do that and said we'll have to move the boulder
that the elves live in so they got someone who speaks to elves to talk to the elves who are
invisible to most people and they said okay you can move our boulder but we really need to have a
view of the sea and it's got to be on grass because we like to keep sheep also invisible sheep
south facing garden yeah and they did invisible tiny elf size sheep uh that you know elves are
human sizes Icelandic elves are they yeah oh I see people but they're invisible way they look like
people but they're invisible that is the only difference the car I didn't know they were I didn't
know they were man sizes it were um should we move on I was just going to say quickly uh because I
think I think I must be one of James's favorite museums or whichever one of you loves weird museums
Iceland has the phallological museum and that has as well which is the penis museum
penis museum say the real sorry sorry I'm like I would mention penis is too much I felt like we
should use a different word two thirds of its underground well you say that but parts of it are
invisible because it claims to have um penises as well as penises is lots of animals it claims to
have elf penises oh and the elf penises look like human penises yeah but they're invisible
so it's just a huge empty cabinet it's I've brought in my collection of elf penises I'm really
disappointed that none of you have used it I'm actually on the wall I'm actually wearing my elf
dick coat right now it's just a coat of penises but you can't I wish you could see it
anyway have you had your mouth open this whole podcast okay that's it that's all our facts thanks
so much everyone for listening if you want to get in contact about any of the things that we've
been talking about on this week's podcast you can get us on our twitter accounts I'm on
at Shriberland Andy at Andrew Hunter James at X shaped and Anna you can get me if you email podcast
actrui.com also if you head to our soundcloud page and you go specifically to the episode timeline
that you're listening to we often put extra notes up on the timeline so if you want to look into
any more stuff probably most likely there'll be stuff up there so do that and we will be back again
next week with another episode a no such thing as a fish we'll see you then goodbye
you're a time to get together show my weekend dude you hold me I hope I'll be you.
you
[BLANK_AUDIO]